Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to make sure that you have access to a text editing program on your computer
before we worry about downloading and installing a text editor.
Let's first go over why we want one in the first place.
So in our previous lesson, we installed Node J.S. and then we learned how to access it from our command
line.
So if I typed Node, I can then start speaking JavaScript two plus two.
You get the idea.
However, if we want to do something complex and interesting, we are going to need to write multiple
lines of code.
So almost as if you were writing a play or a movie or TV show, you would need to write a fairly long
script.
Well, it's the same thing here.
We want to be able to write a long script or a bunch of code and then feed that all into note at once.
Now, the way that this is typically done is by using a text editing program to create a JavaScript
file on our computers hard drive, and then we can feed that file into node.
Now, there are many, many different text ed programs in the world, and many of them are free to use.
The program that I personally use and also that I strongly recommend is named Visual Studio Code.
It's also often referred to as voice code.
So you can Google for Visual Studio Code or as of this recording, the official website is code dot
visual studio, dot com.
It's completely free and completely safe to use and it's available for Windows, Mac and Linux.
It's the text editing program that I'm going to be using throughout the course.
So if you want to follow along with me step by step, I strongly recommend you also download and install
Visual Studio Code a little bit later on.
In this very lesson, I will explain why I think V code is such a great option.
However, I don't want to be dogmatic, so I don't want to force my preferences or opinions on you.
There are many other text editors that you can use.
For example, Adam is a very popular text editor that's also free.
Also Sublime Text is another very popular text editor.
Technically, it's not free, it's available for purchase, but you can use it for free to evaluate
it and decide if you'd like to buy it indefinitely.
The point that I'm trying to make is that there are many, many different text editing programs out
there.
So I don't want you to feel bad if you really don't want to use visual studio code.
However, having said that, my opinion is that you should give it a try because I think it's amazing
anyways.
Having said all of that, right now, I recommend you pause this video lesson while you download and
install voice code.
All right.
At this point, I will assume that you've had a chance to install voice code or you already have an
existing text editor and you're fairly comfortable with it.
So now let's give ourselves a goal of creating our first JavaScript file and then feeding it into node.
Now, instead of just creating a JavaScript file directly on our desktop or in some random folder,
why don't we create a new folder on our computer specifically for this JavaScript file so it doesn't
matter where we create this folder.
But for example, on my desktop, maybe I will create a brand new folder and the name of the folder
doesn't matter, but I will name it first node experiment.
You could name this folder testing or pizza or unicorn.
The idea is that we just created a new empty folder and now I want to open this folder with our text
editor program.
So right now, go ahead and open up LVS code.
And there are several different ways to open a folder in this text ed program so you can use the top
left file menu and just choose a file and then either open or open folder or an even easier way is just
in Windows or Mac to find that new folder that you created and you can just drag and drop the new folder
onto LVS code.
So if you're on Windows, you can just drag this folder onto the VTS code program window.
Or if you're on Mac, you can drag your new folder onto the VTS code icon in your dock.
OK, now once you've opened that folder with VTS code, you should see a few options right about here.
First of all, we can go ahead and close the welcome screen or any sort of welcome tabs.
OK, and then this left hand middle menu that we see here.
Here we see the name of the folder that I just opened up and if I hover over that little tab, I have
a few different options.
So this first icon will create.
A new file within that folder, that's what I'm interested in doing, I want to create a new file in
that brand new folder so you can either click this icon here or you can click file new files up to you,
or you could even just.
Right.
Click anywhere in this empty space right about here and choose new file.
At the end of the day, all we really want to do is create a new JavaScript file and the name doesn't
matter.
I will name it test J.S. The DOT JS tells our computer that this is a JavaScript file, so the first
part of the name doesn't matter.
You could name it Pizza J.S. or Unicorn Dot Jazz.
OK, after we create that file, LVS code opens it up and within this main part of the screen we can
start typing.
So just like before in the code pen examples, we are free to write multiple lines of JavaScript within
this new file.
So why don't you type this out and follow along with me.
Let's create a variable.
So let's say let Strawbery count equal 20.
OK, then below this, let's write an if statement and say if Strawbery Count is greater than 10, logout
a message to the console that says you have enough strawberries otherwise else log out a message that
says you do not have enough strawberries.
So say if parentheses curly brackets within the parentheses for our condition we can say if straw berry
count is greater than ten, then within the curly brackets we can drop down and say console log, you
have enough strawberries.
OK, and then if this is false, if Strawberry Count is not greater than 10 down here after the closing
curly bracket, we can just say else curly brackets, log out to the console.
You do not have enough berries.
OK, then push control s or command us to save this file.
Or you can just use file save.
And now the moment we've all been waiting for, let's feed this file into Noad, right, so instead
of having the Web browser execute this JavaScript code, we want the node environment to execute our
code.
Now, in our previous lesson, we learned how to run node, right.
You need to open up your command line.
However, this is one of the biggest reasons why I'm a huge fan of LVS code.
While you're in VST code, I want you to hold down the control key on your keyboard and simultaneously
press the build the key, which is the key to the left of the one key or it's also the back tick key,
the key right above tab.
So hold control and the still the key and that opens up a command line directly within our voice code
program.
This is incredibly convenient and it makes our lives a lot easier.
You can also access the command line and VSE code by looking in the top view menu and then clicking
on terminal.
Now, if I was not using voice code, I would need to open my command line like we did in our previous
lesson.
Write the command prompt for windows or the terminal for Mac.
But in voice code you don't need to jump back and forth between two separate programs between your text
editor and your command line and voice code.
Your command line is just conveniently right here.
Another thing that's cool is voice code automatically points your command line towards the current folder
that you're working in.
So usually in the command line you would need to say code space and then type out the directory of where
you want to point towards with VTS code.
We don't need to do that.
Our command line is already pointing towards our new working folder.
So check this out.
All we need to do to feed our JavaScript file into node is down in the command line, right node and
then a space and then the name of our file.
So in my case, that's test.
James, we actually do not need to include the dot js so you can just type the actual name of your file
and then push enter.
Awesome, we see you have enough strawberries, and if we come up to our JavaScript code and change
the strawberry count to something really small, like three, and I save the file and then I come down
here and run that code again.
So I say Noad test.
You do not have enough berries, and again, if you named your file something different than test dogs,
you would not say no test.
For example, if you named your file pizza, James, then in the command line, you would write Noad
Space Pizza.
Really, all we are doing is passing our file into Noad.
We're just saying, hey, Noad, execute our file.
Cool.
Now, there's nothing very interesting or impressive about a simple if statement, right?
However, we now have everything we need to really start rolling.
We've installed node onto our computers, we have a text editor program and now we know how to use the
command line to feed a JavaScript file into the node environment.
So I've got some good news.
This means that in our very next lesson, we are ready to use node to build our own small, simple server.
This is where the big picture of what we are trying to accomplish is going to come into focus.
I am so excited to write our first bit of real world node code with you.
So let's keep our momentum rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.